Bitcoin Price Prediction: BTC Price Crosses $100K, Set for $200,000 in 2025?
BTC price breaks $100K as Trump appoints Paul Atkins to the US SEC.

Bitcoin price has surged past the $100K mark, fueled by optimism following Donald Trump’s appointment of crypto advocate Paul Atkins as the new head of the US SEC. The move signals potential regulatory support for digital assets, sparking renewed investor confidence in the crypto market.

Key Takeaways
Bitcoin Current Status: Bitcoin price has blasted past the $100K level, which has caused to touch near $105,000 levels earlier on December 5, 2024. This is a massive development amid US president-elect, Donald Trump’s appointment of crypto advocate Paul Atkins to head the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Market Performance: Bitcoin price is seeing strong buying pressure as the price, which is trading at $ 100,250.00, has jumped by nearly 8% in the past 24 hours. Bitcoin market capitalization has also breached a massive milestone of $2 trillion for the first time in history thanks to this rally. While the bullish sentiments have jumped to 85% and the Fear-Greed Index has reached 78, suggesting the traders remain extremely greedy. 
Technical Analysis: The volatility has been squeezed to a large extent as the price remains consolidated within a predetermined range. Besides, the buying pressure has begun to mount as this psychological level has been breached successfully, indicating the price may continue to rise higher. However, the technical indicators remain bullish, suggesting the price may soon test the next psychological resistance close to $105,000 soon. The price action at these levels may suggest the next course of action, as a rebound may pave the way for a $200K milestone later in 2025. 
BTC Price Prediction: Bitcoin price is now all set to begin the next leg of its bullish journey, backed by extremely optimistic regulatory outlook from the US, and from a technical point of view as well, as large short covering may trigger further upside. 
Future Outlook: Regardless of the current market conditions, the market participants remain bullish on Bitcoin and believe it may trigger a strong rise any time from now. Therefore, the future outlook of BTC price remains extremely bullish with a huge possibility of discovering new highs.

Where will Bitcoin Price Head Next?

Bitcoin price has finally broken out of the impressive psychological resistance level at $100,000 that it has been eyeing for quite some time now. 
This successful breakout of the $100,000 level by Bitcoin price comes in the heels of the positive news of US president-elect Donald Trump appointing Paul Atkins at the helm of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, which has brought in a new bullish fervor in the crypto market. 
On the upside, BTC price is all set to scale new highs, thanks to the positive breakout of the crucial psychological resistance at $100k and sky is the limit. 
On the downside, the $100k level should serve as an important support level for Bitcoin price, as it was recently flipped successfully. 

Bitcoin Price Prediction December 2024
Bitcoin recorded one of the most bullish months with over 34% gains in November. This was expected to offer a strong boost to the BTC price in the last few weeks of the year, reaching $100K in the first few days of the month. Meanwhile, the token faced some liquidations, which compelled the price to drop by a certain range. This need not be the beginning of a rise in bearish activity, as a small pullback is expected to attract huge bullish attention. The price is expected to revamp a strong rise and surge above the crucial resistance around $98,000. By the end of the month, the BTC price is expected to rise above $100K and close around $103K to $105K.

Bitcoin Price Prediction 2025
The bulls are expected to dominate at the beginning of the year, potentially sustaining a steep upward trend.
The BTC price could rapidly approach $140,000 and may even surpass $150,000 before the end of the first half of the year, barring any bearish activity.
In the second half of the year, a strong upward trend is anticipated, with the bull run potentially intensifying and driving the BTC price to $200,000.

Will the Bitcoin Price Rise Again in 2024?

Bitcoin has reached the last phase of the year, and a rise in volatility indicates a notable rise in trading activity. As a result, the price is expected to keep up the bullish momentum regardless of the bearish interference. Therefore, the BTC price is believed to revamp a strong rise and keep up the bullish trend for the rest of 2024. 